WORD / PHRASE
MEANING
awesome	very good, interesting, or appealing
big deal	important event; may be used sarcastically to refer to something that is not important
blast or It’s going to be a blast!	It’s going to be a lot of fun
bomb	to be unsuccessful
blow it off	to ignore or avoid someone or something
blue or have the blues	feel depressed
bogus	1) nonexistent, fake 2) bad, awful, unsatisfactory
to book	1) to hurry up or do something very quickly 2) to reserve a ticket to an event or on transportation
born again	to hold strong, fundamentalist, Christian beliefs
bounce a check	to overdraw a checking account
broke	having no money
buddy	friend
bum a cigarette	to borrow a cigarette
bummed out	depressed
bummer	unpleasant experience
burned	rejected, insulted, or otherwise negatively treated
burned out	1) exhausted 2) dull or lifeless as a result of excessive work or drug use
busted	1) to be caught by anyone in authority while misbehaving, or by the police while using drugs 2) to be “broke” or out of money
check out	1) to sign out materials from a library 2) to try to find out something
check it out	to look over a situation
chill out or cool it	a command to stop what you are doing, relax
cop out	to not face the issue
couch potato	a lazy person who spends a large amount of time (perhaps on a couch) watching television
cram	To study frantically the night before a test
crash	1) to stay overnight in someone else’s dwelling, usually without notice or formal arrangement 2) to go to sleep after becoming extremely tired
cruising	Driving around for pleasure with no particular destination
to have a crush on someone	To be extremely infatuated with someone
cut it out!	Stop it!
dead	1) very tired 2) not living
dork	an unfashionable and awkward male
dorm	dormitory
dough	money
down in the dumps	depressed
drop in	to visit unexpectedly
dude	a fashionable man


fire up	to get excited about something; to motivate
fix up	to arrange a date for a friend
fed up or sick of	disgusted with; tired of
freak out	to lose control of oneself
fuzzbuster	device used by some motorists to determine when police are using radar to detect drivers who are speeding
geek	unattractive, unstylish, socially inept person
get a kick out of someone/something	find someone or something amusing or enjoyable
get on someone’s case	to annoy
get off someone’s case	to stop annoying a person
give someone a break	to stop criticizing or teasing
Give me a break!	Expresses disbelief
Give someone a buzz, a ring	to call someone on the telephone
goofing off	acting silly; doing something that has no particular purpose
give up	to quit
go bananas	to be so excited that one loses control of oneself
gross	something crude, usually unpleasant
hang in there	keep trying; do not be discouraged
hang out	1) to waste time 2) a regular meeting place for friends
hang-up	fear; phobia or worry
hassle	1) a problem or inconvenience 2) cause another person to have a problem or inconvenience
head	another name for the bathroom or toilet facilities
hick	someone from a small town or rural area (usually uncomplimentary meaning unsophisticated)
hit the road	to leave a place
hit the sack or turn in	to go to bed
hitch a ride	to get a ride from another person
hung up	to be in conflict over a problem
ID	identification card
in a nutshell	very briefly and concisely
jerk	person who cannot do things correctly; a mildly derogatory term
jock	an athlete or athletic person, or one who is not very intelligent
john	another name for the toilet or bathroom facilities; head
Knock it off!	Stop doing that! Usually expressed when you are doing something annoying
Lighten up!	Relax, don’t be so serious
loaded	someone who has had too much to drink; someone who has a lot of money
Loosen up!	Relax
lose it	to lose control of oneself
luck out or get lucky	to have something good happen due to luck or chance
Don’t mess with me!	Leave me alone
Mind your own business!	Do not ask questions or make statements about this matter; it is my concern and not yours
mooch	to borrow frequently and/or take things from others, usually without the intention of returning or repaying
nerd	a strange or socially inept person
on the house	free, no cost
Oops!	An exclamation used when a small mistake is made
to be open	to be accepting of something or someone; to speak frankly about oneself
out of one’s mind (head)	1) crazy 2) doing something ridiculous
out of it	tired and not concentrating
pal	friend
pig out	overeat
pop, soda pop, soda, or soft drink	carbonated beverage (Coke, Pepsi, Sprite, et al)
psych up	prepare oneself mentally or emotionally for something
psyched up	enthusiastic
pull someone’s leg	to tease
put someone on	to tease or try to fool
take a raincheck	postpone; accept the same invitation but for a later date
raunchy	vulgar, crude
relationship	a close affiliation with someone, usually romantic
right-hand	an important and reliable assistant
rip off	1) steal 2) anything too expensive and not worth the price
rowdy	noisy, loud, obnoxious
scoop	gossip, recent news
see eye-to-eye	having the same opinion
show	television program, movie, film, or theater performance
shush!	Be quiet, don’t make so much noise
slam	insult a person
slob	1) a lazy, fat person 2) a person who is not dressed neatly 3) an untidy person
spaced out	unable to concentrate
split	to leave
stood up	to be left waiting for someone who never arrives
tacky	in poor taste
Take a hike!	Go away and leave me alone
to be crazy about	to like someone or something very much
to be into something	to be very interested in or concerned with something
touch base	verify information with someone
tough luck	it’s too bad that happened to you
turn over a new leaf	adopt a better course of conduct
unreal	unbelievable
uptight	worried, tense
Way to go!	That’s very good! Sometimes used sarcastically
What’s up? What’s happening? What’s going on?	What event is taking place? What are you doing?
wimp	weakling
zero in on	to focus or concentrate on
zonked or zonkered	completely exhausted