Идиомы с трактовкой и синонимами

Перевод

Пример

after all - despite, nevertheless	все-таки	I knew it! After all, I was right!
all along - all the time	все время, всегда	I knew about his little secret all along.
all ears - eager to listen	весь внимание	I am all ears.
all of a sudden - suddenly	неожиданно	All of a sudden, he refused to pay.
all the same - no difference	все равно, без разницы	If it's all the same to you, let's start at two.
all thumbs - clumsy	неуклюжий, неумелый	He can't fix anything, he's all thumbs.
apple of discord - subject of envy or quarrel	яблоко раздора	This question is an apple of discord in our family.
as a rule - usually	как правило	As a rule, we offer a 5% discount.
as far as I am concerned - in my opinion	что касается меня, по моему мнению	As far as I am concerned, both the book and the movie are good.
as for me/as to me - in my opinion	по моему мнению	As for me, you can rely on his support.
as well - also, too	тоже, также	He knows math, and physics as well.
at all - (not) in the smallest degree	совсем (не)	He doesn't know French at all. I don’t like it at all.
at random - without order	наугад, без плана	He chose those places at random.
at this point - at this time	на данном этапе	At this point, we can't turn back.
be about to - ready (to do)	готов сделать	I was about to leave when you called.
be after someone - insist, press	настаивать, чтобы сделал	His mother is always after him to study.
be all in - be extremely tired	очень устать	I'm all in, I'd better go to bed now.
be back on one's feet - healthy again or better financially	встать на ноги после трудного времени	He's back on his feet after a long period of debt and unemployment.
beat around the bush - avoid giving a clear/definite answer	ходить вокруг да около	Stop beating around the bush! Get to the point!
be beside oneself - be very upset, nervous, worried, etc.	быть вне себя от волнения, горя и др.	She was beside herself with worry / with grief.
be better off - be in a better situation (financially)	в лучшей ситуации (материально)	He'll be better off with a new job.
be broke - have no money at all	быть "на мели" (без денег)	I spent all my money, I'm broke.
be hard on something /someone - treat roughly	не беречь что-то	My son is hard on shoes, they don't last long with him. Life was pretty hard on Tom.
be high on one's list - be one of the most important things	быть в начале списка нужных вещей	A new car is high on my list of priorities. A new TV is not high on my list.
be in charge of - be responsible for	быть ответственным за	He is in charge of marketing.
be in the red - be in debt	быть убыточным	Our sales were in the red last year.
be into smth. - be interested in	увлекаться чем-то	He is into computers. She is into sports.
bend over backwards - try hard	очень стараться	I bent over backwards to help her.
be on one's way	Я уже еду.	I'm on my way.
be on the safe side - not to take any chances	на всякий случай	Take an extra key, just to be on the safe side.
be out of - be without	нет в наличии	We are out of bread, cheese, and sugar.
be out of shape - be physically unfit	быть не в форме	He needs to exercise, he is out of shape.
be out of sorts - in bad humor	не в духе	Leave him alone, he's out of sorts today
be pressed for time / money - be short of; not have enough	не хватать времени или денег	I'm pressed for time now. We are pressed for money at the moment.
beside the point - off the point	не по существу, не относится к делу	What I said to him privately is beside the point.
be to blame - be responsible for a mistake / something wrong	винить за ошибку, неправильные действия	Who is to blame for this awful mistake? Tom is to blame for this mix-up.
be touch and go - be uncertain of the result	на грани; неясно, куда повернется	He was very sick, and for some time it was touch and go, but he is better now.
be up against - be opposed by, have problems, be in danger	иметь серьезные проблемы в чем-то, с чем-то	Our company is up against serious attempts of hostile takeover.
be up and around/about - able to be out of bed after an illness	встать на ноги, поправиться	He was sick for a month, but now he is up and around.
be up to one's ears - very busy	по уши	I'm up to my ears in work.
be up to something - do mischief	задумать, затеять	I have to check what the kids are up to.
be up to someone - be one's own decision or responsibility	на ваше усмотрение, под вашу ответственность	It's up to you to decide. It's up to you to close the office every day at 8 o'clock.
be used to - be accustomed to	быть привычным к	I'm used to hard work. He's used to heat.
big shot - important person	важная персона	He is a big shot around here.
bite off more than one can chew - try to do more than one can	переоценить свои силы	I couldn't handle two jobs and family. I really bit off more than I could chew.
bite one's tongue - stop talking	прикусить язык	I almost told her, but bit my tongue.
bite the dust - die, be defeated	умереть, падать ниц	Many of them bit the dust in that war.
black sheep - a good-for-nothing member of the family	паршивая овца	Their second son is the black sheep of the family, he is good for nothing.
blind date - a meeting of a man and woman arranged by friends	свидание вслепую	She refuses to go on a blind date again because she had bad experience.
blow it - lose the chance	потерять шанс	He understood that he blew it.
blow over - pass, end	стихнуть, пройти	Wait here till his anger blows over.
bottom line - main result/factor	итог, основной момент	The bottom line is, I don't have enough money.
break into - enter by force	ворваться (в дом) силой	The police broke into the robber's house.
break one's heart - hurt deeply	разбить сердце	The news of her death broke his heart.
break the ice - overcome shyness in making the first step	сломать неловкость при знакомстве	The party was dull until someone broke the ice with a joke and we all laughed.
break the news - tell new facts	сообщить важную новость	CNN is breaking the news right now.
bring home the bacon - earn the living for the family	обеспечить семью	He works very hard at several places to bring home the bacon.
brush off - give no attention to	отмахнуться от	The boss brushed off my project again.
brush up on - review	освежить в памяти	You need to brush up on the tenses.
by all means -definitely, certainly	обязательно, конечно	Do you need my help? - By all means.
by heart - by memorizing	наизусть	Learn this poem by heart for tomorrow.
by hook or by crook - by any means possible	любым путем, любым способом	She will get what she wants by hook or by crook.
by the way - incidentally	кстати	By the way, Ann is coming back today.


call a spade a spade - use plain, direct words	называть вещи своими именами	He always tells the truth and calls a spade a spade.
call it a day - consider work finished for the day	считать работу законченной	We've been working for 10 straight hours. Let's call it a day.
call off - cancel	отменить, отозвать	The police called off the search.
carry out - fulfill	доводить до конца	She never carries out her plans.
carry weight - be important	иметь вес	His advice always carries weight here.
cast down - depressed, sad	повергнуть в уныние	He was cast down by the bad news.
castles in the air - daydreaming about success	(строить) воздушные замки	Instead of working hard, he spends time building castles in the air.
catch one's eye - attract attention	привлечь внимание	This picture caught my eye.
catch one's breath - stop and rest	перевести дух	I can't run, I need to catch my breath.
catch someone off guard - catch someone unprepared	застать врасплох	He caught me off guard with his question.
catch someone red-handed - find smb. in the act of doing wrong	поймать за руку, когда делал плохое	The manager caught the boy red-handed when he was stealing cigarettes.
catch up - become not behind	догнать	He needs to catch up with the others.
close call - a narrow escape, a bad thing that almost happened	что-то плохое, что едва не случилось	The speeding car almost hit the man. That was really a close call.
come across - meet by chance	наткнуться на	I came across that article yesterday.
come down with - become ill	заболеть чем-то	I'm coming down with a cold.
come to one's senses - start acting reasonably, intelligently	взяться за ум, придти в себя	He finally came to his senses, started to work hard, and passed his exams.
come true - become reality	осуществиться	My dream came true when I met Pat.
come up with - suggest	предложить	Mike came up with a brilliant idea.
count on - depend on	рассчитывать на	You can always count on me for help.
cut corners - to take a short-cut; to limit one's spending	срезать углы; ограничить расходы	He ran fast, cutting corners where he could. I have to cut corners this week.
cut down on - reduce	сократить потребление	You have to cut down on chocolate.
cut out to be /cut out for it - have the ability to do something	быть созданным для какой-то работы	She isn't cut out to be a surgeon. He's cut out to be a leader.
do one's best - try very hard	сделать все, что смог	I did my best to help him in his work.
do one's bit - do what's needed	сделать положенное	I'll do my bit, you can count on me.
do over - do again	сделать заново	This work is not good, do it over.
do someone good - be good for	принести пользу	Fresh air and exercise will do you good.
do something behind one's back - do (harmful) things secretively	делать (вредные) дела за спиной	I hate people who do things behind my back. He did it behind my back again.
do without - live without	обходиться без	I'll have to do without a car for a while.
down to earth - practical	приземленный	He's quiet, sensible and down to earth.
draw the line - fix a limit	ограничить (предел)	He drew the line for her at $100 a day.
dress up - put on the best clothes	нарядиться	What are you dressed up for?
drop off - deliver somewhere	подвезти до, подбросить до	Can you drop me off at the bank?
drop out - quit (school)	быть отчисленным	He dropped out of school last year.
duty calls - must fulfill obligations	долг обязывает	He said, "Duty calls" and left for work.
easier said than done	легче сказать, чем сделать	It's easier said than done, but I'll try to do it.
eat one's words - take back words	брать назад слова	He had to eat his words after her report.
even so - nevertheless, but	тем не менее	I work hard. Even so, I like my job.
every now and then -occasionally	время от времени	Every now and then I visit my old aunt.
every other - every second one	через один	She washes her hair every other day.
fall behind - lag behind	отстать от	The little boy fell behind the older boys.
fall in love - begin to love	влюбиться	Tom fell in love with Sue at first sight.
fall out of love - stop loving	разлюбить	They fell out of love and divorced soon.
false alarm - untrue rumor	ложная тревога	I heard he quit but it was a false alarm.
a far cry from something - very different, almost opposite (neg.)	далеко не такой хороший, как	His second book wasn't bad, but it was a far cry from his first book.
feel it in one's bones - expect something bad to happen	чувствовать, что случится плохое	Something bad is going to happen, I feel it in my bones.
feel like doing something - want to do, be inclined to do smth.	быть склонным к занятию чем-то	I feel like going for a walk. I don’t feel like working now, I’m tired.
feel up to - be able to do	в состоянии сделать	I don't feel up to cleaning the house.
few and far between - rare, scarce	слишком редкие	Her visits are few and far between.
find fault with - criticize	критиковать	He always finds faults with everybody.
find out - learn or discover	узнать, обнаружить	I found out that Maria left town.
firsthand - directly from the source	из первых рук, достоверная информация	You can trust it, it's firsthand information.
first things first - important things come before others	сначала главное	First things first: how much money do we have to pay right away?
fly off the handle - get angry	разозлиться (вдруг)	He flew off the handle and yelled at me.
follow in someone's footsteps - do the same thing	идти по чьим-то следам, делать то же	Igor followed in his father's footsteps, he became a doctor, too.
foot in the door - a special opportunity for a job	получить шанс на работу	Nina got a foot in the door because her friend works in that company.
foot the bill - pay the bill	заплатить по счету	Her father footed the bill for the party.
for good - forever	навсегда	After her death, he left town for good.
for the time being - at this time	на данное время	For the time being, this house is all right for us.
frame of mind - mental state	умонастроение	I can't do it in this frame of mind.
from A to Z - completely	от начала до конца	He knows this town from A to Z.
from now on - now and in the future	впредь	From now on, I forbid you to go there.
get a grip on oneself - take control of one's feelings	контролировать свои чувства	Stop crying! Get a grip on yourself!
get along with - have good relations	быть в хороших отношениях, ладить	Ann gets along with most coworkers, but doesn't get along with Laura.
get away with - not be caught after doing wrong	уйти от наказания	The police didn't find the thief. He got away with his crime.
get carried away - get too excited and enthusiastic about something	слишком увлечься чем-то	He got carried away with opening a store and lost most of his money.
get cold feet - be afraid to do	побояться сделать	I wanted to try it but got cold feet.
get even with - have one's revenge	расквитаться с кем-то	I'll get even with him for everything!
get in touch with - contact	связаться с кем-то	Get in touch with Mr. Smith for help.
get lost - lose one's way	потерять дорогу	She got lost in the old part of town.
Get lost! - Lay off!	Исчезни!	I don't want to see you again. Get lost!
get mixed up - get confused	перепутать	I got mixed up, went the wrong way and got lost.
get off one's back - leave alone	отстать от кого-то	Stop bothering me! Get off my back!
get on one's high horse - behave haughtily towards someone	вести себя высокомерно	Every time I ask her to help me with typing, she gets on her high horse.
get on (the bus, train, plane)	сесть на (транспорт)	I got on the bus on Oak Street.
get off (the bus, train, plane)	сойти с (транспорта)	I got off the bus at the bank.
get out of hand - get out of control	выйти из-под контроля	If he gets out of hand again, call me right away.
get over - recover after an illness or bad experience	поправиться, преодолеть что-то	I can't get over how rude he was to me. She got over her illness quite quickly.
get rid of - dispose of, discard	избавиться	He got rid of his old useless car.
get together - meet with	собираться вместе	My friends and I get together often.
get to the bottom - know deeply	добраться до сути	He usually gets to the bottom of things.
get to the point - get to the matter	дойти до сути дела	Get to the point!
Give me a break! - spare me	с меня хватит	Come on, stop it! Give me a break!
give someone a hand - help	помочь кому-то	Can you give me a hand with cooking?
give someone a lift /a ride - take to some place by car	подвезти кого-то	Can you give me a lift to the bank? He gave her a ride in his new Porsche.
give someone a piece of one's mind - criticize frankly	высказать, что на уме, критиковать	She lost my umbrella again, so I gave her a piece of my mind about her carelessness.
give up - stop doing something, stop trying to do something	отказаться от чего-то, прекратить попытки	I gave up smoking. I gave up trying to fix my old car.
go back on one’s word - break a promise	нарушить свое слово, обещание	First he said he would help me, but then he went back on his word.
go for it - try to do a new thing	пробовать новое дело	If I were you, I would go for it.
go from bad to worse - be worse	становиться все хуже	His business went from bad to worse.
go out - go to parties, movies	пойти развлекаться	Do he and his wife go out often?
go out of one's way -try very hard	очень стараться	He goes out of his way to please her.
go to one's head - make too proud	успех вскружил голову	His acting success went to his head.
go to pieces - get very upset, fall apart	сильно расстроиться	She went to pieces when she heard it.
go with the flow - lead quiet life	плыть по течению	She always goes with the flow.
grow on someone - become liked	постепенно понравиться	When she knew him more, he grew on her.
had better - should	лучше бы, а то…	You look ill, you'd better see a doctor.
have a ball - have a good time	отлично провести время	Yesterday we had a ball at the party.
have a bone to pick - complain or discuss something unpleasant	иметь счеты с кем-то, претензии к кому-то	Mr. Brown, I have a bone to pick with you. My mail was lost because of you.
have a word with someone - talk to	поговорить о чем-то	Can I have a word with you?
have words with someone - argue with someone about something	крупно поговорить	I had words with my coworker today because he used my computer again.
have it in him - have the ability	иметь нужные качества	Laura has it in her to be a good doctor.
have no business doing something - have no right to do	нечего вам здесь делать, быть и др.	You have no business staying here without my permission.
have one's back to the wall - be hard-pressed, on the defensive	быть прижатым к стене	I had no choice, I had my back to the wall.
have one's hands full - very busy	быть очень занятым	He has his hands full with hard work.
have one's heart set on something - want something very much	очень хотеть получить что-то, кого-то	She has her heart set on going to New York. He has his heart set on Betty.
have pull - have influence on	иметь влияние на	Does he have pull with the director?
(not) have the heart - (not) have the courage to do smth. unpleasant	(не) хватает духа сделать неприятное	I don't have the heart to tell him that he wasn't accepted, he'll be so unhappy.
high and low - everywhere	везде (искать и т.д.)	I searched high and low for my lost cat.
hit the nail on the head - say exactly the right thing	попасть в точку	You hit the nail on the head when you said our company needs a new director.
hit upon something - to discover	обнаружить ценное	They hit upon gold. I hit upon a plan.
hold it against someone - blame somebody for doing something	(не) держать зла на кого-то	I lost his book, but he doesn't hold it against me.
Hold it! - Stop! Wait!	Остановитесь/Стойте!	Hold it! I forgot my key.
Hold on! - Wait!	Подождите!	Hold on! I'll be back in a minute.
hold one's own - maintain oneself in a situation, behave as needed	постоять за себя, утвердиться в чем-то	He can hold his own in any situation. We need men who can hold their own.
hold up - rob using a weapon	грабить с применением оружия	This bank was held up twice last year.
ill at ease - uncomfortable	не по себе	She felt ill at ease because of her cheap dress.
in advance - well before	заранее	He told her about his plan in advance.
in a nutshell - in a few words	кратко, вкратце	In a nutshell, my plan is to buy land.
in care of someone - write to one person at the address of another	адресату по адресу другого человека (у кого остановился)	I'm staying at Tom's house. Write to me in care of Tom Gray, Chicago, Illinois.
in cold blood - mercilessly	хладнокровно	He killed her in cold blood.
in fact - actually, in reality	фактически	In fact, he works as a manager here.
in general - generally, generally speaking	в общем, вообще	In general, he likes to be alone. He described the place only in general.
in one's element - what one likes	в своей стихии	He's in his element when he's arguing.
in other words - using other words	другими словами	In other words, you refused to do it for her.
in plain English - in simple, frank terms	проще говоря	I didn't really like the concert. In plain English, the concert was terrible.
the ins and outs - all info about	входы и выходы	He knows the ins and outs of this business.
in someone's shoes - in another person's position	на месте другого, в положении другого	I'd hate to be in his shoes now. He lost his job, and his wife is in the hospital.
in the long run - in the end	в конечном счете	In the long run, it'll be better to buy it.
in the same boat - in the same situation	в таком же положении	Stop arguing with me, we're in the same boat and should help each other.
in the clear - free from blame	вне претензий	Pay the bill and you'll be in the clear.
in time (to do something) - before something begins	придти вовремя, чтобы успеть что-то сделать (до начала чего-то)	I came in time to have a cup of coffee before class.
it goes without saying - should be clear without words	не стоит и говорить, само собой	It goes without saying that he must pay what he owes right away.
It's on the tip of my tongue.	вертится на языке	His name is on the tip of my tongue.
it's time - should do it right away	пора	Hurry up, it's time to go.
It's worth it. / It's not worth it. It’s (not) worth buying, visiting, watching, etc.	оно того стоит /оно того не стоит; (не) стоит покупать, посетить, смотреть и т.д.	Watch this film, it's worth it. Don't buy this coat, it is not worth it. This museum is worth visiting. This film is not worth watching.
it will do - it's enough	достаточно	Stop reading, it will do for now.
jump at the opportunity/chance - accept the opportunity eagerly	ухватиться за возможность	His boss mentioned a job in Europe, and Peter jumped at the opportunity.
just as soon - prefer this one	предпочел бы (это)	I'd just as soon stay home, I'm tired.
just in case - to be on the safe side	на всякий случай	Take an extra shirt, just in case.
Just my luck! - Bad / Hard luck!	Мне всегда не везет!	They lost my job application. Just my luck!
keep an eye on - take care of, watch, look after	последить за, присмотреть за	Betty keeps an eye on my sons for me. I’ll keep an eye on you!
keep a straight face - not to laugh	стараться не смеяться	I tried to keep a straight face, but failed.
keep company - accompany	составить компанию	She keeps me company quite often.
keep one's word - fulfill a promise	держать слово	You promised, now keep your word.
keep someone posted - inform	держать в курсе событий	Keep me posted about your plans.
keep your fingers crossed - hope that nothing will go wrong	надеяться, что все пройдет гладко	I have a job interview today. Keep your fingers crossed for me, will you?
kill time - fill/spend empty time	убить время	I went to the show to kill time.
(not) know the first thing about - not to have any knowledge about	ничего не знать по какой-то теме	I don't know the first thing about nuclear physics.
know the ropes - be very familiar with some business	знать все ходы и выходы	He knows all the ropes in this company.
last-minute notice - little or no time to prepare for something	сообщение в последний момент	His arrival was a last-minute notice, we didn't have time to prepare for it.
lay one's cards on the table - be frank and open	сказать честно, открыть карты	Finally, we asked him to lay his cards on the table and tell us about his plans.
lay one's life on the line - put oneself in a dangerous situation	ставить жизнь на карту	He laid his life on the line to fulfill this task, but nobody appreciated his efforts.
lead a dog's life - live in misery	вести собачью жизнь	He leads a dog's life.
lead someone on - make someone believe something that isn't true	заставить кого-то поверить неправде	They suspect that you are leading them on. You led me on!
leave it at that - accept reluctantly	оставить как есть	Leave it at that, what else can you do?
leave word - leave a message	оставить сообщение	He left word for you to meet him at the airport at 6.
let bygones be bygones - forget and forgive bad things in the past	не ворошить прошлое	Why don't you let bygones be bygones and forget about what he said?
let go of - release the hold	отпустить, не держать	Let go of my hand or I'll call the guard.
let (it) go - forget bad experience, return to normal life	освободиться от тяжелого переживания	He's still in despair and can't let (it) go. You can’t change anything, so let it go.
let one's hair down - be relaxed and informal with other people	держаться неофициально	She is always so formal. She never lets her hair down.
let someone down - disappoint, fail someone	подвести кого-то	Don't let me down this time!
let someone know - inform	известить	Let me know when you find a job.
like father, like son - be like one's parent in something	какой отец, такой и сын	Paul won a prize in a chess tournament. Great! Like father, like son!
little by little - step by step	понемногу	Little by little, he got used to Tokyo.
look for - search for	искать	What are you looking for?
look forward to - expect with pleasure	ожидать с нетерпением	I'm looking forward to your letter. Mary is looking forward to the party.
look out - be careful, watch out	остерегаться	Look out! The bus is coming!
look up - check with /in a dictionary or a reference book	посмотреть в словаре или справочнике	If you don’t know this word, look it up in the dictionary.
lose one's temper - become angry	разозлиться	He loses his temper very often.
lose one's way - get lost	потерять дорогу	I lost my way. Can you help me?
lose track of - not to know where someone or something is	потерять из виду	I lost track of him years ago.
lucky break - a lucky chance	счастливый случай	He got his lucky break when he got this job.
make a living - earn money to provide for life	зарабатывать на жизнь	He works hard. His family is big, and he has to make a living somehow.
make allowance for - take into consideration when judging	учитывать, делать скидку на	Don't criticize him so hard, make (an) allowance for his inexperience.
make a point of - be sure to do something intentionally	считать обязательным для себя сделать что-то	Make a point of asking about his wife. Make it a point to be here by 10.
make ends meet - to have and spend only what one earns	сводить концы с концами	His doesn’t get much money. I wonder how he manages to make ends meet.
make friends - become friends	подружиться	Anton makes new friends easily.
make fun of - laugh at, joke about	высмеивать	He made fun of her German accent.
make no bones about it - say/do openly, without hesitation	сказать прямо, не скрывая отношения	I'll make no bones about it: I don't like your attitude to work.
make room for - allow space for	освободить место для	We can make room for one more dog.
make sense - be logical	имеет смысл	What you say makes sense.
make the most of smth - do the best in the given situation	извлечь лучшее из	Let's make the most of our vacation.
make up - become friends again	помириться	I'm tired of fighting. Let's make up.
make up for smth - compensate	компенсировать	I'll make up for the time you spent on it.
make up one's mind - decide	принять решение	When will you go? Make up your mind.
make yourself at home - be comfortable, feel at home	будьте как дома	Come in please. Make yourself at home.
man of his word - one who keeps promises, is dependable	хозяин своего слова, держит слово	You can depend on his promise to help. He's a man of his word.
mean well - have good intentions	хотеть сделать, как лучше	He meant well, but it turned out that he spoiled a couple of things for me.
might as well - a good idea	может быть неплохо	I might as well telephone him now.
missing person - someone who is lost and can't be located	пропавший человек (в розыске)	The little boy disappeared. The police registered him as a missing person.
meet someone halfway - compromise with others	идти на компромисс с кем-то	He's reasonable and tries to meet his coworkers halfway, when possible.
never mind - it doesn't matter	неважно, ничего	Thank you. - Never mind.
not to mention - in addition to	не говоря уж	We have three dogs, not to mention two cats.
no wonder - not surprising	неудивительно, что	He ate three big fish. No wonder he's sick.
now and again - occasionally	время от времени	I meet them now and again at the bank.
odds and ends - a variety of small unimportant things or leftovers	мелочи, остатки, обрезки	I needed to buy some odds and ends for the kitchen.
off the cuff - without preparation	без подготовки	Off the cuff, I can give you only a rough estimate.
off the point - beside the point	не относится к делу	What I think about him is off the point.
off the record - not for the public, unofficially	не для публики, неофициально	Strictly off the record, I think the director is going to get married soon.
once and for all - decidedly	однажды и навсегда	You must quit smoking once and for all.
on credit - not pay cash right away	в кредит	He bought a car on credit.
on edge - nervous, irritable	нервный, раздраженный	He's been on edge ever since she left.
on guard - on the alert	настороже, бдительный	He's cautious and always on guard.
on hand - available	под рукой	Do you have a calculator on hand?
on one's own - alone, by oneself	самостоятельно, один, сам по себе	She likes to live and work on her own.
on one's toes - alert, attentive, prepared for difficulties	бдительный, собранный	He was on his toes and produced a very good impression on them.
on purpose - intentionally	нарочно, с целью	I didn't do it on purpose, it just happened so.
on second thought - after thinking again	по зрелом размышлении	I'd like to sit on the aisle. On second thought, I'd like a window seat.
on the alert - on guard	начеку, настороже	He's cautious and always on the alert.
on the carpet - called in by the boss for criticism	вызвать на ковер	Yesterday the boss called her on the carpet for being rude to the coworkers.
on the go - busy, on the move	в движении, на ходу	He is always on the go.
on the off chance - unlikely to happen, but still	маловероятно, но на всякий случай	On the off chance that you don't find him at work, here's his home address.
on the other hand - considering the other side of the question	с другой стороны	I'd like to have a dog. On the other hand, my wife likes cats better.
on the spot - right there	на месте, сразу	I decided to do it on the spot.
on the spur of the moment - without previous thought / plan	под влиянием момента	He bought this car on the spur of the moment, now he regrets it.
on time - punctual	в назначенное время	Jim is always on time.
out of one's mind - crazy	сумасшедший	If you think so, you're out of your mind.
out of one's way - away from someone's usual route	не по пути	I can't give you a lift to the bank, it's out of my way today.
out of the question - impossible	не может быть и речи	Paying him is out of the question!
pack rat - a person who saves lots of unnecessary things	тот, кто не выбрасывает старые ненужные вещи	Why does she keep all those things she never uses? - She is a pack rat.
pay attention - be attentive	обратить внимание	Pay attention to his words.
pick a fight - start a quarrel	начать ссору	He often tries to pick a fight with me.
pick up - take, get	подобрать, взять	I'll pick you up at 7.
play one's cards right - choose the right steps in doing something	сыграть правильно	If you play your cards right, he'll agree to your plan.
potluck supper - a surprise meal, where nobody knows what dishes other guests will bring	ужин вскладчину, никто не знает, что принесут другие	You know what happened at our last potluck supper? Everybody brought macaroni and cheese, apples, and beer!
pull oneself together - brace oneself, summon your strength	cобраться с силами	Stop crying and complaining! You have to pull yourself together now.
pull the wool over someone's eyes - deceive, mislead someone	обмануть, ввести в заблуждение	Are you trying to pull the wool over my eyes? It won't do you any good.
put a damper on - discourage	охладить пыл	She always puts a damper on my plans.
put in a word for someone - say positive things about someone	замолвить словечко	I'd be very grateful if you could put in a word for me when you speak to him.
put off - postpone	откладывать	Don't put it off till tomorrow.
put one's foot down - object strongly	решительно воспротивиться	Her father put his foot down when she said she wanted to marry Alan.
put one's foot in it - do the wrong thing, make a fool of oneself	сделать/сказать глупость	He put his foot in it when he told the boss his daughter wasn't pretty.
put up with - accept, tolerate	мириться с, терпеть	I can't put up with your bad work!
quite a bit of - much, a lot of	много	I had quite a bit of trouble with that car.
quite a few - many, a lot of	много	He wrote quite a few good stories.
rack one's brain - try hard to think	напрячь мозги	He racked his brain to solve the puzzle.
read between the lines - find or understand the implied meaning	читать между строк	His books are not easy to understand; you have to read between the lines.
remember me to - say hello to	передать привет от	Please remember me to your family.
right away - immediately	сразу же, немедленно	It' very important to do it right away.
ring a bell - remind someone of something familiar /half-forgotten	напоминает что-то знакомое	Annabel Lee? Yeah, it rings a bell, but I can't place it right now.
rock the boat - make the situation unstable	раскачивать лодку, вести к нестабильности	Peter always rocks the boat when we discuss company's spending policy.
rub shoulders with - meet with	близко общаться с	He doesn't rub shoulders with the rich.
rub someone the wrong way - irritate, annoy, make angry	раздражать, злить кого-то	His remarks rub many coworkers the wrong way.
run into - meet by chance	случайно встретить	I ran into an old friend yesterday.
save face - try to change the negative impression produced	спасать репутацию	He said a stupid thing and tried to save face by saying he misunderstood me.
save one's breath - stop useless talk	не трать слова попусту	There's no use talking to him about his spending habits, so save your breath.
scratch the surface - study something superficially	изучать поверхностно	He examines all the facts closely, he doesn't just scratch the surface.
see about - make arrangements for	позаботиться о чем-то	I have to see about our plane tickets.
see eye to eye - agree	сходиться в мнении	We don't see eye to eye any longer.
serve someone right - get what someone deserves	поделом	It serves him right that he didn't get this job, he despised all other candidates.
serve one's purpose - be useful to someone for his purpose	отвечать цели	I doubt that hiring this man will serve your purpose.
show promise - be promising	подавать надежды	This young actor shows promise.
show up - appear	появиться	I waited for hours but he didn't show up.
size up - evaluate someone	оценить, составить мнение	It took me 5 minutes to size up that man.
sleep on it - postpone a decision till next morning	отложить решение до следующего утра	Don't decide now, sleep on it.
a slip of the tongue - a mistake	обмолвка (ошибка)	It was just a slip of the tongue!
slip (from) one's mind - forget	забыть	It slipped my mind what she asked me.
smell a rat - suspect something	подозревать недоброе	I'm not sure what it is, but I smell a rat.
so far - up to now	до сих пор, пока	So far, I have read 3 books by King.
so much the better - it's even better	еще лучше	If he can pay cash, so much the better.
spill the beans - tell a secret	проболтаться	Who spilled the beans about our plan?
stand a chance - have a chance	нет шансов	He doesn't stand a chance of getting it.
stand out - be noticeable	выделяться	He stands out in any group of people.
stand to reason - be logical	логично, что	It stands to reason that he apologized.
straight from the shoulder - speak frankly	честно, откровенно	Don't try to spare my feelings, give it to me straight from the shoulder.
take a dim view of something - disapprove of something	не одобрять	My sister takes a dim view of the way I raise my children.
take a break - stop for rest	сделать перерыв	Let’s take a break, I’m tired.
take advantage of - use for one's own benefit, to profit from	воспользоваться возможностью	We took advantage of the low prices and bought a computer and a monitor.
take after - be like one of the parents	быть похожим на родителей (родителя)	Tom takes after his father in character, and after his mother in appearance.
take a stand on something - make a firm opinion/decision on smth.	занять четкую позицию, мнение	People need to take a stand on the issue of nuclear weapons.
take care of - look after, protect, see that smth. is done properly	позаботиться о ком-то, чем-то, присмотреть за	Can you take care of my dog while I’m away? Tom takes good care of his car.
take hold of something - take, hold	взять, держать	Take hold of this rope and pull.
take into account - consider smth.	принять во внимание	You must take into account her old age.
take it easy - relax, be calm	не волнуйся	Take it easy, everything will be OK.
take (it) for granted - accept as given	принимать как должное	Mother's love is always taken for granted by children.
take one's breath away	захватить дух	That great view took my breath away.
take one's time - do slowly	делать не торопясь	Don't hurry. Take your time.
take one’s word for it - believe	поверить на слово	Take my word for it, he won’t go there.
take pains - try hard to do it well	прилагать усилия	He took pains to make his report perfect.
take part in smth. - participate in	принять участие	Mary is going to take part in the show.
take place - happen	иметь место, случиться	The accident took place on Oak Street.
take someone's mind off things - distract from fixed ideas/thoughts	отвлечь от навязчивых мыслей	Go to a concert or a movie to take your mind off things.
take steps - take action /measures	принимать меры	We need to take steps against it.
take the words right out of one's mouth - say the same before somebody else says it	сказать то же самое чуть раньше, чем другой говорящий	I was about to say the same! You took the words right out of my mouth.
take time - take a long time	занять много времени	It takes time to get used to a new place.
take time off - be absent from work	взять отгул	He took time off to attend the wedding.
take turns - alternate doing something one after another	делать по очереди, меняться местами	We went to Minsk by car. We didn't get tired because we took turns driving
talk back - answer rudely	дерзить	Don't talk back to the teacher!
talk it over - discuss	обсудить с кем-то	I'll talk it over with my family.
tell apart - see the difference	различить, отличить от	Can you tell the twins apart?
That's just the point. - That's it.	В этом-то и дело.	That's just the point! I hate this job!
the writing on the wall - a sign of future events (usually, trouble)	предзнаменование (обычно, беды)	The plane crashed. Tim said he saw the writing on the wall about this flight.
not think much of - think low	невысокого мнения	I don't think much of her cooking.
think over - consider carefully	обдумать	Think over your answer. Think it over carefully.
till one is blue in the face - try hard	стараться до посинения	I repeated it till I was blue in the face!
to make a long story short - in short	короче говоря	To make a long story short, we won.
to say the least - to make the minimum comment about smth.	самое малое, что можно сказать	The film was boring and long, to say the least.
try on - put on new clothes to test them for size or look	примерить одежду (перед покупкой)	Try on this leather coat, it's very good. She tried it on, but it didn’t fit her at all.
try one's hand at something - try	попробовать себя в	I want to try my hand at painting.
turn on / off - switch on / off	включить/выключить	Turn on the radio. Turn off the water.
turn out to be - result/end this way	оказаться	He turned out to be a very good actor.
turn over a new leaf - make a fresh start in life, work, etc.	начать (жизнь, новое дело) заново	He promises to turn over a new leaf and quit alcohol for good.
turn the tide - reverse the course of events	повернуть вспять ход событий	The new evidence turned the tide, and the defendant was acquitted of charges.
twist one's arm - make to agree	выкручивать руки	They twisted his arm to sell the house.
under the weather - feel ill	нездоровится	I'm a little under the weather today.
up-and-coming - showing promise of future success	многообещающий, подающий надежды	He is an up-and-coming young lawyer who might help you with your case.
up in arms - hostile to, in strong protest against something	протестовать против, сопротивляться	The employees are up in arms about the new retirement rules.
up in the air - undecided	еще не определено	My vacation plans are still up in the air.
(not) up to par - equal in standard	(не) в норме	His behavior isn't up to par.
used to - did often in the past, but not now	в прошлом делал, сейчас нет	I used to play the piano when I was in school (but I don't play it now).
walk on air - be very happy	летать от счастья	He got the job and is walking on air now.
waste one's breath - speak uselessly, to no purpose	не трать усилия зря	Don't waste your breath trying to make him do it, he won't change his mind.
watch one's step - be careful	быть осмотрительным	Watch your step!
watch out - look out, be careful	остерегаться	Watch out for that car! Watch out!
wet blanket - a kill-joy, who spoils everybody's fun	тот, кто портит всем удовольствие	Remember what a wet blanket he was last time? Please don't invite him again.
What's the matter? - What is it?	В чем дело?	What's the matter? What happened?
which way the wind blows - what the real situation is	какова реальная ситуация	He knows which way the wind blows and always acts accordingly.
white lie - unimportant lie	невинная ложь	A white lie is told to spare your feelings.
word for word - in the same words	дословно, дословный	Tell me word for word what he said.
would rather - prefer	предпочитать	I'd rather stay at home today.